ThermaBlade - A Case Analysis

ThermaBlade  was claimed to be "the most significant advance in skate blade design in at least 30 years" by Gretzky, one of the company's owners. However, we now know that the impact of ThermaBlade on the ice skating market has been close to null, making the product a huge failure, and anything but revolutionary. The incubation of the idea seemed to have taken all the right steps. The company established its niche in the ice skating industry and differentiated itself from the other blades in the market with its heated blade designs. The blades were aimed at giving players a cutting-edge advantage over the regular blades owing to its technology but at a cost.

ThermaBlade with its superior heated blade technology seems to have become a victim of the classic better mousetrap fallacy. While ThermaBlade managed to create a product that has great value in terms of reduced skating resistance, they failed to get it user-tested, and thus turned a blind eye to the customer’s needs and feedback. The lack of extremely positive feedback despite the exceptional preliminary testing goes to show that ThermaBlade hadn’t truly allowed its customers to test the product side by side with their existing skates. The Star reported “[ThermaBlade] blades a dud, players report” owing to the disappointment the product was amongst players. The success of an expensive, innovative product in the market severely depends on word-of-mouth recommendations by early adopters. With no specific purpose being solved by the blades, there were no recommendations by people who initially bought the blades. Moreover, given the price and the lack of utility or differentiation from existing blades, the customers who did buy ThermaBlade were more likely to dissuade people from buying it.
Thus as part of the adoption cycle, while enthusiasts and visionaries bought the product, the lack of good reviews from them didn’t allow ThermaBlade to reach the early majority.

The primary reason for their failure was the fact that they tried to market their product to elite players without the backing of a large brand name, or the backing of significant adoption. Even though as a company ThermaBlade managed to create a product that has great value in terms of reduced skating resistance, they failed to make sure that customers could observe and feel this value for themselves. Moreover, ThermaBlade’s current strategy failed because they did not settle on value proposition let alone the final product. Even their chief brand ambassador Wayne Gretzky had only tried just a prototype of the actual skates. After receiving preliminary feedback from their initial customers on early prototypes, ThermaBlade was still making changes and fixes to their product which in itself shows that ThermaBlade did not exercise due diligence in product development, and were still going through the iterations of the initial design.

Using Everett Rogers 5 factors affecting technological advantage for a company as a basis, we can see that the heated blades are not entirely compatible with the players’ lifestyle. It's hard to think of charging your shoes as a player to be able to use them for a match the next day. Additionally, the skates would be useless for practice sessions longer than an hour since the blades only have limited battery capabilities, and need to be charged for two hours for just seventy five minutes of training. This limiting capability further hinders their use for elite players with intensive training and practice schedules.
In addition to compatibility, the blade’s advantages are not instantly noticeable. ThermaBlade’s apparent relevant advantage was injury reduction by reducing the starting and gliding resistance of the blades, but this improvement is difficult for the consumer to observe and measure in comparison to existing blades, since the effects are more long-term. As for improved acceleration, pro players at the peak of the game are used to high accelerations on their existing skates, and thus, would not feel the same differential increase in their capabilities that a beginner would.

If one were to analyse this situation using Porter’s five forces, ThermaBlade would face heavy competition from existing ice skate blade manufacturers that currently do not deploy any heating technology. Not only would these companies have a better supply chain management system, but they would also have strong connections with existing manufacturers. ThermaBlade would also be suffering the wrath of the bargaining buyers who have the upper hand since they are the ones testing out this new product from a company that they haven’t heard of before.

These factors not only affect the current success- or lack thereof - of the company but also  remain a very real threat after the company gains some success and recognition.

A better approach for ThermaBlade to capture this new market segment would have been to follow the advice of Suarez and Lanzolla in their article about First Mover Advantage. According to them, since there are going to be no significant improvements in the technology behind a heated blade, ThermaBlade has managed to create a calm-waters segment where the pace of technological advancement as well as market adoption are slow. At this point ThermaBlade needs to create a strong brand name to succeed, and establish themselves in the industry. They need to market themselves as a brand that is in the business of selling ThermaBlades instead of the business of selling heated ice skating blades. This way they can establish themselves as the reference point that customers base future competition on. Any alternative launched by a competitor would not be able to offer any significantly new value proposition since the technological advancement in the industry is slow. This initial slow pace of adoption should also give ThermaBlade enough time to cultivate and capture new market segments. It is important to note that ThermaBlade should not stop improving their product as the technology slowly improves, because this allows ThermaBlade to be up to date while heeding off any late-entrants from working around ThermaBlade’s patent.
ThermaBlade has succeeded in creating an uncontested Blue Ocean that naturally should offer them the capacity to build a brand, and one that splits the current present value/cost proposal. Not only have they managed to go outside the boundaries of the existing ice skating blades business, but also successfully created a new market segment that their competitors hadn’t even begun to think about.

By drawing comparison from The Art of Making Smart Big Moves, we know that ThermaBlade has taken a charge in the innovation category but still significantly lacks prospects towards efficiency and customer intimacy. If they were to make the blades a smart connected product, they could direct the customer to become a stronger player by adding suggestions to improve the manner of their skating. They could even offer multiple tiers of data collection to be more customizable to the customer’s demands and current skill-level. This would allow them to add additional value to the product without actually adding a large cost. Not only do they have to iterate and improve on the customer intimacy part of the product, but also become more efficient to be able to drive costs down and appeal to a larger market. This would prevent them from getting disrupted by any new entrant that offers some more value.

Overall, the lack of success of ThermaBlade can be attributed to their poor market strategy and incomplete user product testing, while their new strategy should be to establish brand value by increasing customer intimacy, and controlling efficiency to capture market. Moreover, if they do get approval from the AHL and the NHL they should work with player’s associations (NHLPA) to make sure that the players are ready to use them, and possibly involve them as early on as the design stage to make the product the best it can be.
